For my final project I decided to build a full stack competitive drawing game application with React, Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, and react-sketch. The app features a backend created with Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL that only features an index and show route meant to feed the frontend with a list of randomly generated words seeded in the database. The frontend is built with React and makes use of react-sketch as a means to enable the user to gain access to the canvas component of the DOM and draw in the browser.

For my main user story, I wanted two teams of two players to be able to navigate to my app and then be able to play a Pictionary-esque competitive drawing game. When exploring what stack to build my application with to achieve this user story, I settled on using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL for my backend because I knew that I would only need to create a lightweight API that my frontend would then have to interact with. I decided to utilize React on my frontend because I felt that making use of its ability to manipulate state would be crucial for the various elements that would go into my game. I also thought that its simple use of components would help with the separation of concerns during development.

As for what new technology I decided to teach myself throughout the course of this project, I decided on react-sketch after researching several potential alternatives. I chose this package over others because I felt that it provided me with the most built-in tools to manipulate the canvas element of the DOM. Not only does react-sketch enable you to draw on the canvas, it provides the user with access to a suite of tools to let them draw straight lines, rectangles, and circles. It also allows you to easily change the color of each tool using the RGB values you would set using CSS.

Some challenges I encountered throughout the course of production that I was able to overcome were: learning how to use react-sketch, creating my game's logic, and deploying my frontend to Heroku. On the other hand, I would like to re-explore some of my functions within the Main.js component in the future and prevent the user from having to press the stop timer and reset timer after each turn.

I am overall extremely satisfied with this project, especially with what I was able to create in such a limited amount of time. I thoroughly enjoyed teaching myself how to use a new technology and look forward to expanding my toolset in the future.

Link to live site: https://doodle-duel-frontend.herokuapp.com/
Link to backend: https://doodle-duel-backend.herokuapp.com/
